Title: Doctoral Fellowship Opportunities at ADYPU
Source: https://adypu.edu.in/doctoral-program/doctoral-fellowship

Careers -Join ADYPU

About UsOverviewKey featuresDoctoral ProgramsInternational Research AdvisorDoctoral Studies – SupervisorsDuration

Key features

Doctoral Programs

International Research Advisor

Doctoral Studies – Supervisors

Entrance TestNotificationImportant DatesEligibilityExamination StructureSyllabusPersonal Interview & Research Aptitude

Notification

Important Dates

Eligibility

Examination Structure

Personal Interview & Research Aptitude

Research Projects

Fellowships

About Us Overview Key features Doctoral Programs International Research Advisor Meet our Doctoral Supervisors Duration

Meet our Doctoral Supervisors

Entrance Test Notification Important Dates Eligibility Examination Structure Syllabus Personal Interview & Research Aptitude

Doctoral Fellowship

About Doctoral Fellowship

Ajeenkya DY Patil University (ADYPU) is committed to attracting top research talent in promoting research in diverse streams which are interdisciplinary in nature. At ADYPU, we provide the platform to extend doctoral research careers.

The objective of the ADYPU-Doctoral Fellowship Scheme is to provide opportunities to competent and qualified candidates to undertake full-time advanced studies and research leading to a Ph.D. degree under ADYPU as well as for his/her career enhancement at the University.

Doctoral Fellowship Schemes

The scheme is applicable for the following categories of Doctoral Fellowships

Research Fellowships

Teaching Fellowships

The total period of the fellowship is three years and there is no further provision of extension.

The fellowship recipients shall have the complete waiver of PHD tuition fees.

The ADYPU Doctoral Fellowship Scheme shall be applicable from AY: 2023-2024 onwards.

Designation

Registration Opens

Rs.35000 – 40000 per month

Teaching Fellows

Duration & Value

Doctoral Fellowship is a full-time research work to be pursued within the ADYPU University campus.

The duration of the Fellowship is for three years, which shall not be extendable in nature.

The number of doctoral fellowships will be decided in consultation with the Deans of ADYPU Schools / Dean-Research and Dean of School of Doctoral Studies.

The pre-determined number of fellowships shall be considered on vacancies, subject to the final decision of the Vice Chancellor.

The doctoral fellowships shall be approved by the DRC Committee.

All doctoral fellows reporting authority shall be delegated with the Doctoral Studies.

ADYPU shall notify the final number of doctoral fellowships on its University website.

Eligibility Criteria

The eligibility criteria for receiving of ADYPU Doctoral Fellowship is enlisted as below:

The candidate must have a Master’s Degree with at least 55 percent marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in the UGC seven-point scale (or an equivalent grade in a point scale wherever grading system is followed) or as per the norms of the regulatory bodies.

The candidate must successfully appear for the ADYPU Ph. D Entrance Test and must be able to qualify the following: ADYPU Ph.D. Entrance Test (PET) with minimum score of 60 percent marks or with proven academic track record. Personal Interview & Research Aptitude Round with the Doctoral Research Committee. NET and M. Phil from UGC recognized university shall carry weightage in the assessment of the research proposal.

ADYPU Ph.D. Entrance Test (PET) with minimum score of 60 percent marks or with proven academic track record.

Personal Interview & Research Aptitude Round with the Doctoral Research Committee.

NET and M. Phil from UGC recognized university shall carry weightage in the assessment of the research proposal.

Those who have qualified for the UGC NET/SET/SLET/GATE/M. Phil exam are exempted from the Ph.D. Entrance Test, but they must appear directly for the Personal Interview & Research Aptitude Round.

Those who have received UGC/CSIR/ ICSSR/ DST Inspire or any other government Doctoral Fellowships and have appeared for PI and qualified for Ph.D. program of ADYPU can pursue their Doctoral Research Work with ADYPU as Full Time Ph.D.

Scholar along with Fellowship from the respective organizations. However, they have to pay the PHD fees as applicable. However, they shall not fall under the ambit for receipt of doctoral fellowships.

The candidate should not be more than 40 years of age on the last date of application. There shall be an age relaxation of 5 years for SC/ST/Persons with benchmark disability candidates.However, qualifying the candidate.

List of Doctoral Fellows

Batch Intake

Name of Awardee

Name of School

Specialization

Aarti Gupta

Human Resource Management

Aakruti Advani

Corporate Law

Sonia Dsouza

Constitutional Law

Jyoti Srivastava

Engineering

Biotechnology

Mahak Bhandari

Jyotsna Pansare

Sangeeta Verma

Criminal Law

Hariharan Nair

Shardul Jadhavar

Trishna Bokil

Ashish Barve

lntellectual Property Law

Tejaswi Avhad

We are a world-class university that prepares students for the global market, with an emphasis on fostering growth through a spirit of innovation.

Quick Links

Invite Us to Your School

Life at Campus

Ajeenkya DY Patil University

D Y Patil Knowledge City, Charholi Bk. Via Lohegaon, Pune - 412105 Maharashtra (India)

Application Form 2023-24