Title: Doctoral Examination Structure at ADYPU
Source: https://adypu.edu.in/doctoral-program/doctoral-examination-structure

Careers -Join ADYPU

About UsOverviewKey featuresDoctoral ProgramsInternational Research AdvisorDoctoral Studies – SupervisorsDuration

Key features

Doctoral Programs

International Research Advisor

Doctoral Studies – Supervisors

Entrance TestNotificationImportant DatesEligibilityExamination StructureSyllabusPersonal Interview & Research Aptitude

Notification

Important Dates

Eligibility

Examination Structure

Personal Interview & Research Aptitude

Research Projects

Fellowships

About Us Overview Key features Doctoral Programs International Research Advisor Meet our Doctoral Supervisors Duration

Meet our Doctoral Supervisors

Entrance Test Notification Important Dates Eligibility Examination Structure Syllabus Personal Interview & Research Aptitude

ADYPU shall admit Ph.D. Students through an ADYPU Ph.D. Entrance Test. The examination will be conducted annually during the month of July.

Format of ADYPU Ph.D. Entrance Test

ADYPU PET will be conducted for 100 marks. The Entrance Test will be divided into two parts. Each part is of 50 marks.

Part One (Research Methodology): Common for all Schools

The General Test measures verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, critical thinking and analytical writing skills — skills that have been developed over a long period of time and are not related to a specific field of study but are important for all.

Verbal Reasoning

The Verbal Reasoning section measures your ability to:

Analyse and draw conclusions from discourse; reason from incomplete data; identify author’s assumptions and/or perspective; understand multiple levels of meaning, such as literal, figurative and author’s intent

Select important points; distinguish major from minor or relevant points; summarize text; understand the structure of a textunderstand the meanings of words, sentences and entire texts; understand relationships among words and among concepts

Quantitative Reasoning

The Quantitative Reasoning section measures your ability to:

Understand, interpret and analyze quantitative information

Solve problems using mathematical models

Apply basic skills and elementary concepts of arithmetic, algebra, geometry and data analysis

Analytical Writing

The Analytical Writing section measures your ability to:

articulate complex ideas clearly and effectively

support ideas with relevant reasons and examples

examine claims and accompanying evidence

sustain a well-focused, coherent discussion

control the elements of standard written English

The Analytical Writing section requires you to provide focused responses based on the tasks presented, so you can accurately demonstrate your skill in directly responding to a task.

Part Two: Domain Specific

The applicant will choose the subject with respect to the area of research he / she intends to pursue. The paper will be of 50 marks. The syllabus for different subjects has been laid as under: (For details, refer to Annexure One)

Engineering

Liberal Arts

We are a world-class university that prepares students for the global market, with an emphasis on fostering growth through a spirit of innovation.

Quick Links

Invite Us to Your School

Life at Campus

Ajeenkya DY Patil University

D Y Patil Knowledge City, Charholi Bk. Via Lohegaon, Pune - 412105 Maharashtra (India)

Application Form 2023-24